.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: GPL-3.0-or-later
.\"
.TH LOFIBOX 1 "April 2026" "LoFiBox 0.1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
lofibox \- chromeless desktop-widget music player
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lofibox
[\fB\-\-help\fR]
[\fB\-\-version\fR]
.PP
.B lofibox
[\fB\-\-json\fR|\fB\-\-porcelain\fR]
[\fB\-\-fields\fR \fIFIELDS\fR]
[\fB\-\-quiet\fR]
\fICOMMAND\fR
[\fIARGS\fR...]
.PP
.B lofibox-tui
[\fIVIEW\fR]
[\fB\-\-charset\fR \fIunicode|ascii|minimal\fR]
[\fB\-\-theme\fR \fIdark|light|amber|mono\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B LoFiBox
is a compact Linux music player with a chromeless desktop-widget surface.
It is designed for local music playback, media-library browsing, metadata
and artwork display, remote-source extensibility, and a DSP-ready audio
pipeline.
.PP
The installed executable also provides a product-object CLI. Durable commands
use the application command/query boundary. Live playback, active queue, active
EQ, active remote-session, and live settings commands require a running LoFiBox
instance and use the runtime transport.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-help
Show command-line help and exit.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Show the application version and exit.
.TP
.B \-\-json
Emit machine-readable JSON for commands that support structured output.
.TP
.B \-\-porcelain
Emit stable tab-separated output for commands that support machine output.
.TP
.BI \-\-fields " FIELDS"
Limit named fields for state-oriented commands. Fields are comma-separated.
.TP
.B \-\-quiet
Suppress stdout where supported while preserving the exit code.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B version
Show version information. Supports
.BR \-\-json ,
.BR \-\-porcelain ,
and
.BR \-\-quiet .
.TP
.B doctor
Run safe runtime and environment diagnostics.
.TP
.B source list|show|add|update|remove|probe|auth-status|capabilities
Manage durable remote/source profiles and safe source status.
.TP
.B credentials list|show-ref|set|status|validate|delete
Manage credential references. Secret values are not printed. Use
.B \-\-password-stdin
or
.B \-\-token-stdin
to provide secret material from standard input.
.TP
.B library scan|status|list|query
Scan and inspect the local media library.
.TP
.B search
Search local media and, when requested, configured remote sources.
.TP
.B remote browse|recent|search|resolve|stream-info
Browse, search, resolve, and inspect connected remote catalogs.
.TP
.B cache status|purge|gc
Inspect and maintain governed cache storage.
.TP
.B now
Query the running LoFiBox runtime snapshot.
.TP
.B runtime status|playback|queue|eq|remote|settings|reload|shutdown
Query or control the running runtime.
.TP
.B play
Control live playback. Supports
.B \-\-id
for a local track id and transport options such as
.BR \-\-pause ,
.BR \-\-resume ,
.BR \-\-toggle ,
.BR \-\-next ,
.BR \-\-prev ,
.BR \-\-stop ,
.BR \-\-seek ,
.BR \-\-shuffle ,
and
.BR \-\-repeat .
.TP
.B queue show|set|next|clear
Inspect or mutate the active runtime queue.
.TP
.B eq show|enable|disable|preset|band
Inspect or mutate the active runtime EQ state.
.TP
.B tui [dashboard|now|lyrics|spectrum|queue|library|sources|eq|diagnostics|creator]
Open the terminal-native LoFiBox TUI through the installed
.B lofibox
entry point when the target is built with TUI support.
.TP
.B lofibox-tui [VIEW]
Open the same terminal UI through the standalone executable. TUI options include
.BR \-\-charset ,
.BR \-\-theme ,
.BR \-\-no-color ,
.BR \-\-runtime-socket ,
.BR \-\-layout ,
and
.BR \-\-refresh .
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B 2
User input or usage error.
.TP
.B 3
Resource not found.
.TP
.B 4
Credential missing or authentication failed.
.TP
.B 5
Network, remote, runtime transport, or provider connection failure.
.TP
.B 6
Playback backend or live playback failure.
.TP
.B 7
Persistence failure.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/lofibox/
User configuration directory.
.TP
.I ~/.local/share/lofibox/
User data directory.
.TP
.I ~/.cache/lofibox/
User cache directory.
.TP
.I ~/.local/state/lofibox/
User state directory.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xdg-basedir (7)
